# btc-price-prediction-sentiment-analysis

In this project, two different GUIs were created one of these GUIs contained the first prediction system and the other contained the second prediction system. In the first model, the user is expected to enter only the news title. Based on this news headline and obtaining the BTC price of the relevant day, it calculates the sentiment score and estimates the BTC price change for tomorrow compared to today. In the second model, the user is expected to enter the news title, USDI, and Dow Jones financial values. It calculates the sentiment score based on the news headline received from the user and predicts how the BTC price will change tomorrow depending on the financial metrics it receives, today’s BTC price, and the calculated sentiment score.

From May 10, 2023, to May 11, 2020, Bitcoin news was collected. VADER, GPT-3, TextBlob, and CryptoBERT were used to give sentiment scores to this dataset. Since it was seen that the most accurate scores were given by VADER, the project continued with the data scored with VADER. The BERT model was trained with this dataset scored by the VADER. After receiving a text from the user for both models, the sentiment score is calculated with the BERT model. For two different prediction systems, models were constructed and trained using SVM, Random Forest, and Logistic Regression algorithms. Each prediction algorithm was trained with both the original training data and the training data prepared using SMOTE-Tomek.

The performances of the models created for two different prediction systems were examined. When comparing the performances, two different scenarios that are **buying and **selling BTC were considered. For the first prediction system, considering the first scenario, the model created with SVM and trained with resampled data gives the best results, and considering the second scenario, Random Forest models give the best results. One of these Random Forest models is trained with original training data and one with balanced data. When the models selected successfully for the first scenario, the confusion matrices are examined. It is seen that the cases where the prediction value is ’+1’ and the actual value is ’-1’ are less than the other models. In this case, users, who want to buy BTC, can be provided with a less risky recommendation. For this reason, it is more appropriate to use the model created with SVM and trained with resampled data for the first scenario in the first prediction model.  In the second scenario, successful algorithms were selected by looking at the confusion matrix. Models with the lowest outputs where the prediction value is ’-1’ and the actual value is ’+1’ were found to be more appropriate for this scenario. Thus, it was ensured that users who want to sell BTC can get a more reliable recommendation.

In the second prediction system, for the first scenario, models created using Logistic Regression and using SVM give the best results. Both models are trained with resampled training data. These SVM and Logistic Regression models give more reliable recommendation when looking at confusion matrices than other prediction models. In the first scenario, it is desirable to have a minimum of situations where the prediction will rise but the true value will fall. Models prepared with SVM and Logistic Regression and trained with resampled data have this undesirable situation less than others. For the second prediction system, the Random Forest model trained with the original training set gives the best performance in the second scenario condition. In this second scenario, it is desirable to minimize the fact that the price of BTC is predicted to decrease while actually rising, as more reliable advice is provided to users who want to sell. Compared to other models, looking at the confusion matrices, the Random Forest model contains less this situation output for the second prediction system and the second scenario. Other models contain more cases with prediction value ’-1’ while more actual values are ’+1’ in confusion matrices.

In addition, the classification successes of the developed prediction models for each class were compared. For the first prediction system, Random Forest models and the SVM model trained with balanced data were able to classify into all three classes. However, Logistic Regression models and the SVM model trained with original data could only classify in a single class. 

In general, each prediction model made the best classification in the ’0’ class. When the models created for the second prediction system are examined, the Logistic Regression model trained with balanced data, Random Forest models and the SVM model trained with balanced data can be classified in every class. Logistic Regression trained with the original data and SVM models trained with the original data could only classify in the ’0’ class.



